
# EvaML - An XML-Based Language for Affective Social Robots

## Introduction

When you have to choose between a Domain Specific Language (DSL) or a General Purpose Language (GPL), you have to choose between expressiveness and generality[@mernik2005and]. Within an application domain, DSLs have gains in expressiveness and ease of use compared to GPLs. DSLs also show gains in productivity, maintenance cost and requires less domain and user knowledge.

With the objective of facilitating the development of interactive sessions by people with technical knowl- edge in programming, but also aiming to maintain the readability of the script codes, EvaML was created. It is an XML-based language for developing interactive sessions and makes it possible to create interaction scripts for the EVA robot using just a simple text editor. All the robot’s multimodal interaction controls are present in EvaML, among them, the Light component control (which controls the smart bulb), the speech and voice recog- nition commands and the userEmotion command that enables the recognition of the user’s facial expression through the webcam. The language also has elements for creating and manipulating variables, generating random numbers, conditional controls using switch and case elements and so on. The EvaML parser automatically
generates a corresponding script to be run by the robot’s hardware.

In order to enable testing interactive sessions built with the EvaML language, an EVA robot simulator software was developed. EvaSIM is the software that simulates the robot’s multimodal interaction elements and behavior. It has a display that shows the robot’s eye expressions, simulates a smart light bulb, uses IBM Watson to transform text into speech, it simulates voice recognition capability (using a text-based interface), simulates facial expression recognition, can play audio files and so on. In addition to the robot components, the simulator also has a terminal emulator that displays the robot states and the actions being performed. It also displays the contents of the variables being used by the script being run. EvaSIM receives as input and executes the XML code generated by the EvaML parser. This manual presents the EvaML language, its structure as an XML document its elements and attributes. For each element of the language, XML code examples are presented.  

Although the use of graphical tools makes an average user be productive, a user with advanced skills in the application domain can be reduced in efficiency[@novak2010easy]. The XML-based DSL development goals are: enabling greater control in the entry and editing of language commands and its respective parameters; adding abstractions of programming elements that aim to facilitate the construction of scripts and enabling the development of scripts independent of the robot's control interface, that is, using any text editor. The XML language has many advantages for developing DSLs:

1. The XML language is more readable to non-programmers than the GPLs.
2. In an XML-based DSL, the grammar can be described using DTD (Document Type Definition) or a
document of type XML-Schema.
3. It is simple to parse the XML structure using the DOM (Document Object Model).
Therefore, we used the XML language and the tools related to it to propose and implement EvaML, the markup
language to specify interactive sessions for robot EVA.

<!-- For full documentation visit [mkdocs.org](https://www.mkdocs.org).

A equação da reta é $y = mx + b$.

## Commands

* `mkdocs new [dir-name]` - Create a new project.
* `mkdocs serve` - Start the live-reloading docs server.
* `mkdocs build` - Build the documentation site.
* `mkdocs -h` - Print help message and exit.

## Project layout

    mkdocs.yml    # The configuration file.
    docs/
        index.md  # The documentation homepage.
        ...       # Other markdown pages, images and other files.

!!! info "Dica"
    Você pode adicionar dicas em caixas bonitas!



```xml title="exemplo.xml"
<root>
    <example state="on" >Hello World</example>
</root>
```

# Bem-vindo ao Manual da Minha Linguagem 🚀

Este site apresenta a definição dos comandos da linguagem, exemplos de uso
e guias para desenvolvedores.

## 📖 Estrutura da Documentação

- [Comandos básicos](comandos/create-user.md)
- [Exemplos de uso](exemplos.md)
- [Sobre o projeto](sobre.md)

## 🔧 Começando

```xml
<create-user name="João" role="admin"/>

As discussed in Smith et al. [2020](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artmed.2020.101234). -->

<!-- ## References
- Smith, J., & Doe, A. (2020). *Robotic tutors for student engagement*. Journal of Education Robotics, 12, 45-56. [Link](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artmed.2020.101234) -->


<b>References</b>
\bibliography



